An Almost Kinda Near Death Experience
=====================================

:slug: an-almost-kinda-near-death-experience
:date: 2007-03-07 17:07:54+00:00
:tags: waksman

As I was walking to my car this morning, an SUV skidded out of control,
slid through where I had just crossed the street, slid very quickly off
the road and destroyed a street sign. I was unaware of the event until I
heard skidding and a crash behind me. Turning around, noting the feigned
sense of shame on the driver's face, frozen in the realization that a
one or two second delay might have resulted in my death, a very strange
thing happened: nothing.

In that moment, a moment so stereotypically connected with enlightenment
and self-awareness, I merely paused and then moved on. As I continued on
to my car, I thought about how such events play out in movies and
wondered why I was being so blasé about the matter. If my life were a
movie, this event could have been a nucleating point where I decide that
life's too short to be sitting around and crank myself into high gear. I
could run off, announce my undying love to the woman who has been set up
through the movie as my perfect match and then live happily ever after;
I could embark on some great adventure that has amusing trials and
tribulations, eventually leading to further enlightenment; I could
undertake that risky business plan that leads to incredible fortune; or,
any of a handful of other cliché options. Rather than anything
interesting, I got in my car and drove to school.

There are plenty of reasons why I might not be terribly struck by my
near miss but only a few make any sense to me: perhaps such an event
really isn't all that profound; maybe I'm sufficiently pleased with
where my life is and where it's going to not want change; perhaps I
don't have any goals, desires or aspirations that might drive me to care
about my life enough to be shaken up; or, perhaps I'm sufficiently
dissociated from risk to properly assign shock and fear to the
situation. Between the grim, good and boring options, I haven't made
much headway in ascertaining my actual stance; it may be a mix of some
or all of them and there might be other options that haven't occurred to
me.

Although I don't really seem to be taking anything more lasting and
substantial than this blog post, it was an interesting experience to
face my own mortality, if but for a moment. In spite of the
interestingness of the experience, I'm glad that I'm not injured,
hospitalized or dead and don't much want to suffer a repeat of this sort
of incident.
