Global Warming and the Albedo
=============================

:slug: global-warming-and-the-albedo
:date: 2007-01-19 20:25:39+00:00
:tags: science & technology, weather

At this point, it's pretty much undeniable that global warming is
bearing down on us. There are a lot of people out there that think
people are causing global warming but there are also a lot of people out
there that think people are not causing global warming and, quite
frankly, I don't care which side of the fence you're on. Whether global
warming is our fault or natural doesn't matter; what matters is what
we're going to do about it. If it's our fault, we need to fix it; if
it's natural, we want to impede it because the planets climate works
best for our species where it was a few decades ago (at least as far as
I'm concerned). I really don't want my kids or grandkids to live in a
world without glaciers or snow outside the polar circles.

So now that we've established that we need to do something, what?
There's the standard suggestions of stop killing rain forests and
produce less carbon dioxide but, let's face it, humans are too
pig-headed and stupid for that to ever happen. Since we're not going to
do that, let's take a different approach; let's look at the Earth's
albedo.

You might be wondering at this point, what is albedo? You might do well
to `ask Wikipedia <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albedo>`__ but, in
short, albedo is a unitless measure of an objects reflectivity. As a
noteworthy point, the albedo of snow and ice is much higher than that of
just about everything else on the Earth's surface. Snow and ice are
diminished by higher temperatures, their loss lowers the albedo and
lower albedos raise the temperature, therefor albedo decrease and
temperature increase are self-reinforcing. So here's where things get
interesting conceptually, let's try to raise the Earth's albedo and do
what we can to get things going in the other direction. If you want to
drive a gas-guzzling monstrosity of a car, go for it but get the car in
white, not black; paint your house in a light or pastel color, lobby
your legislatures to use concrete or light tarmac instead of standard
dark tarmac; put mirrors on your roof.

Forget emissions, let's work on our albedo. Well, don't completely
forget emissions, but you get the point.
