Dear gay guys, please stop hitting on me
========================================

:slug: dear-gay-guys-please-stop-hitting-on-me
:date: 2008-07-30 20:10:41+00:00
:tags: waksman, animals

Being hit on by gay guys is, for me, something of a combination of
unwanted flattery and a mild nuisance but I've kind of hit my limit for
tolerating it recently.

San Francisco, as a city, has a fairly large gay population and it
happens to be the case that where I live (Dore St. and Folsom St.) is
right near the center of gay leather/BDSM culture for San Francisco.
There happen to be quite a few leather stores and gay bars within a few
blocks of my place and, pretty much every time I take Baldr for a walk,
I have to pass at least two gay bars. The situation is that Baldr is
pretty much one of the cutest dogs most people have ever seen and almost
everyone I encounter wants to interact with him. I don't mind gay guys;
I don't mind walking past gay bars; I don't mind gay guys wanting to
meet Baldr just as I don't mind lesbians, straight men or straight women
wanting to meet Baldr; but when gay guys try to use Baldr as a way to
pick me up, that's when I start to mind.

Usually attempts are pretty tame, some guy saying something about how
cute Baldr is and then adding a small comment to the effect of, "and
he's got a cute handler also." Sometimes it's a little cheesy, as when I
took Baldr and Angus out, they, at one point, had my arms spread out
going in opposite directions and some guy said, "I see you're hung like
this" and held his hands out like the classic Jesus joke punch line.
Sometimes, though, body language and phrasing can really sketch me out,
especially when someone tries to find a way to touch me, like the tap on
the shoulder when making a statement that's quite obviously more than
just a tap on the shoulder.

All in all, I was doing a fine job of tolerating the occasional unwanted
advance until about last Friday. This past Sunday, the `Dore Alley
Fair <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dore_Alley_Fair>`__ took place pretty
much right outside my apartment. The Dore Alley Fair is, essentially, a
less tourist-friendly version of the `Folsom Street
Fair <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Folsom_Street_Fair>`__, which is to
say that it's a huge, gay, leather fetish fair. This meant there were a
lot more gay guys, than normal this past weekend and I got hit on a lot
more. It also meant that, on Sunday, in order to walk Baldr, I had to
carry him half a block through a solid mass of men in various states of
dress ranging from clothed to fully naked. The number of comments and
touches I received was a couple every few feet as opposed to a couple a
day and it was just a little too much for my comfort. It was an
interesting thing to witness but I'm not terribly pleased that I was
forced to interact with it and I'm rather displeased that so many people
took the context and Baldr as an excuse to make advances on me.

The experience does get me thinking: is this the sort of thing that
straight men make women put up with?
