R.I.P. Browder
==============

:slug: rip-browder
:date: 2008-06-21 07:21:21+00:00
:updated: 2008-06-21 15:36:19+00:00
:tags: animals

I am very saddened to report that my family dog, Browder, had to be put
down. Browder was a yellow Labrador and had reached the ripe age of 13.
Browder developed cancer in his abdomen about a year ago, which he
recovered from after surgery. A month or so ago, the cancer came back
and it was, once again, removed, though it was more invasive this time
around. Sadly, it was not fully removed and, about a week ago, it
started to make a really strong push forward. The cancer rather
thoroughly overwhelmed poor Browder and he had to be put down yesterday.

When I last saw Browder, in early May, he had just had his most recent
surgery and he seemed quite a bit more lively than I'd seen him be in
years. It is my belief that, after the last surgery, he knew that he was
on the way out and figured that he might as well live things up a bit
with the time he had left. I'm so glad that I managed to get back east
and see him one last time.

I am really going to miss that lazy old layabout. I remember so many
times with him; it's hard to accept that he isn't anymore. I remember
when he was young and would bring us things he found; he was an
excellent retriever in spite of us never teaching him how. He once came
home with a live baby owl gingerly held in his mouth; he caused the owl
no physical harm, though I'm certain the shock ruined the poor little
bird; he brought it in, placed it on the floor and looked at us for
approval at the trophy he'd brought us. I remember when my brother,
Joseph, was a toddler and he'd climb all over poor Browder, tormenting
him as only a toddler can torment a dog; Browder would just lie there,
gentle as could be putting up with it all. I remember visiting Tim
Jessup place land in Norfolk, CT, taking a Sunfish out on the lake and
sailing while Browder chased me around trying desperately to keep up; he
wasn't a big fan of saltwater but he was a fantastic swimmer. Sure he'd
steal food sometimes, sure his hair was everywhere, but man was he a
good dog.

I can't write any more, it's too sad. I'm going to go cry myself to
sleep.
