Where there's one deer, there's usually more
============================================

:slug: where-theres-one-deer-theres-usually-more
:date: 2006-01-28 07:27:35+00:00
:tags: waksman

Driving home this evening, I saw a deer run across the street a few
hundred feet ahead of me and in spite of not seeing any other deer
around, I figured it was best to slow down a whole lot. Lucky for me, I
was right to assume there'd be more as another one leapt across the
street not twenty feet in front of me as I got to where the first had
crossed. If I hadn't assumed more were to follow, I would be both a deer
killer and the proud owner of a truck with a smashed front end. Ignoring
the ruining my truck part, I really don't much want to crash into a deer
because then I'd be stuck with a fatally wounded deer in pain. I don't
know exactly what I'd do in that situation but I did think about it a
good deal after narrowly avoiding having to deal with it. In the end, I
came to the conclusion that the correct approach would be to take the
crowbar from my trunk and beat the deer to death; sure it's not pleasant
but it's better than leaving it to suffer and die slowly. I don't much
want to have to go and kill anything, even out of mercy; it saddened me
enough that time I accidentally ran over a fox. Damnit, now I'm
remembering that fox again. I'm such a softie, oh well, whatever, I just
don't like killing things. I guess the moral of this story really is,
where there's one deer, there's usually another.
