Woods Hole, MIT, Virgin America; it's a small world
===================================================

:slug: woods-hole-mit-virgin-america-its-a-small-world
:date: 2009-12-29 00:26:13+00:00
:updated: 2010-01-07 00:51:11+00:00
:tags: travel

Yesterday, in returning from a week long, Christmas related stint in my
home state of Massachusetts, I had a particularly intriguing
synchronicity.

I was flying `Virgin America <http://www.virginamerica.com/>`__, which
is an excellent airline but that's an entire discussion of its own
right. As a matter of good fortune, I was flying Main Cabin Select,
which provides, amongst other things, the option of checking in through
the First Class line. The regular line was proceeding rather quickly and
a young lady behind me in line made a comment to the effect of it
seeming a mistake to be in the First Class line. My motivations being as
they are, I took a few moments to chat with this nice young lady but
didn't make it far before it was my turn to go forward and check my
baggage.

Conversations cut short are unfortunate but such things happen. I
proceeded through security, got to the gate, waited a while and boarded
the plane where who should end up in the seat next to me but the very
same young woman who had been behind me in line. This was a pleasant
coincidence but not terribly surprising insofar as there are not very
many Main Cabin Select seats on any given plane. Shortly after taking
her seat, this young woman says to me, "nice ring" and, as I glance
over, it turns out that she's an MIT graduate as well; there's a
pleasant extra level to this coincidence and a good source for
conversation topics.

As we're chatting about various things, this young woman (who I am going
to refer to as Margaret because it's easier than continuing to use
qualified generic nouns), mentions that she was on the crew team and I
mentioned that I had been on the sailing team. Somehow, in discussing
sailing, I mentioned spending summers on Cape Cod, which raised the
question of where. My answer, of course, is Woods Hole and, lo and
behold, Margaret's family also has a place in Woods Hole. I should note
that Woods Hole is a very small town and it's quite rare that I
encounter someone in Woods Hole that I have not met before, especially
someone within 5 years of my own age. As a result, rather
unsurprisingly, it turns out that Margaret and I have at least a dozen
mutual acquaintances and friends.

Overall, it was a fantastically surprising coincidence; so much so that
it makes me wish that `Mr.
Data <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_%28Star_Trek%29>`__ were on hand
to tell me what the odds of the coincidence were. Certainly there exist
certain biases to correct for, which make it such that the coincidence
isn't purely random but I am not terribly inclined to enumerate all of
the non-random factors that may have contributed. Why such a coincidence
happened, I can't say, but it did, and that's great. The end result is
that I've narrowed the gap of people that I don't know in Woods Hole and
made a connection with a pleasant new person in this world.
