Let's talk gold
===============

:slug: lets-talk-gold
:date: 2006-04-26 01:34:52+00:00
:updated: 2006-04-26 14:33:45+00:00
:tags: musings

Ok internet, I don't usually talk finances but that's because I don't
usually have anything financial to talk about. Today is different
though, today, we're going to talk gold. Right now, gold is ~$630/ounce
and I would put money down, heck I have put money down, that it's going
to be worth more. Now, when I say that gold will be worth more, I mean a
lot more. The greedy reader will now being asking where to sign up but
the savvy reader will be wanting to know where I'm drawing this notion
from. Personally, I'm more interested in the savvy reader, so here's why
gold is going to go way up.

There are three different factors involved in why gold is going to go
up: gold is currently undervalued, gold's actual value is on the rise
and there's going to be a huge gold fad soon.

A big factor in the undervaluation of gold is that it hasn't
sufficiently caught up to inflation. The value of gold has gone up and
down a little but has remained fairly constant relative to the $USD
since the mid-eighties in spite of a conservative inflation estimate of
about 250%. On top of lagging behind inflation, gold has a very low
value relative to other commodities. Let's take, for example, oil: since
1970, gold has averaged about 7 ounces per 100 barrels of oil but right
now gold is about 10 ounces per 100 barrels of oil. Now, some of you
might say that oil is a bad comparison because oil is expensive right
now and to that I say that oil is expensive in dollars and that
commodities prices are far more tightly interrelated. Relative to the
dollar, relative to oil, relative to everything, gold is undervalued
right now; gold would have to get to about $1000 to be properly valued.

Ignore any monetary value for a moment, gold's application value is
going up right now. With China and India modernizing, they will want and
need gold. China and India will need gold to support their booming
technology industries; gold is vital in electronics and all sorts of
other applications. On top of needing gold, China and India will want to
flex their muscles in the world marketplace, which will mean bringing
their gold reserves up in line with the other big nations, which will
increase demand and thus real value. Add to this that the consumers
within these and other modernizing nations will want gold items and you
get even more value increase.

The impending gold fad is where the real fun kicks in. The current US
political climate is making people fear for the future of the American
stock market and US currency, which historically has driven people to be
interested in the commodities market where they can buy real things,
like gold. Gold has been showing very solid growth since 2001; it's up
%100 in the past five years and that tends to make people say, "ooh."
More than anything else, though, there's been buzz about gold in places
frequented by the everyman; it's not a secret anymore. I may not be
terribly "hip", or "with it" but I keep my finger on the pulse of
information and culture and when gold starts popping up in strange
places, I see it. So here's what's going to happen: people are going to
see someone mention gold that usually only thinks about stocks and funds
or they're going to hear about it somewhere very uncharacteristic, like
digg, here or some other blog. Then, these people are going to look into
what people are saying and realize that gold is hugely undervalued.
Then, there's going to be a huge overcorrection and, before we know it,
gold will be $2000-$3000/ounce before crashing back to $1000/ounce where
it should be. This is my prediction.

On top of the fact that it's going to be worth a ton of money, there are
other reasons why gold is a good investment choice, namely liquidity and
taxes. Gold is almost as liquid as currency and, for that matter, better
than foreign currency. Find a store that deals in precious coins,
metals, goods, etc., walk in and buy or sell gold, that's it. There will
be a price spread associated with gold transactions but it will be
pretty small. Now, let's talk about taxes; there aren't any. Gold
transactions over $1000 aren't taxed and that's both directions so, if
you make a gazillion dollars profit in gold, that's a gazillion untaxed
dollars.

So, with the caveat that I'm no financial professional and you should do
your own research to see if everything checks out, I really think that
people should get into the gold market. Further, I think you should get
into the market right now or pretty much anywhere up until it hits
around $800-$1000/ounce.
