in(s)anity
==========

:slug: in-s-anity

It is time to do some writing or, at least, that's the plan. I don't
know why it's time to do some writing, but when I woke up today I knew
it to be the case, which is why I just bought myself a new composition
pad. I'm using a pen, specifically the pen that I tend to use for my
little snippets of wisdom (if you want to call it that). Now, the use
of a pen is not my standard far as I far prefer the feel and lines of
a pencil, especially a good mechanical pencil. I spent a very long
time quite attached to the Pentel P205 and went through about 3 in
twice as many years. Worth noting is that the 5 in the model number is
indicative of the lead thickness, .5mm, and that P207, P209 and others
exist. Some people get very particular about odd things, .5mm pencil
lead and myself are a good example. It's not terribly worth going into,
the main point is that my use of a pen is nonstandard. So, you might
ask why I would use a pen to write when I so prefer pencils. The
answer turns out to be one of self direction. If I write with a pen
and do not allow myself to cross words out, every word that I write is
a bridge that has forever burned behind me.

The more things that are going on in the world around you, the harder
it becomes to focus on any given one. Distraction is a plague, which
is thoroughly difficult to evade.

The easier the tools one has, the easier it is to allow unskilled
operators. Unskilled operators tend to make mistakes.

It is very easy for one to lose one's steam when the environment is
not correct for continuing. Stuff stuff stuff stuff yawn write don't
care if there's no quality, just write, keep momentum. Words must
continue to be placed on the paper. Must I continue to force myself to
ignore Bio or can I keep writing volume and not ignore. Word word
photogenetic phylogeny monked dogmatic system brick whale tourniquet
ratchet fortune cookie cap square sign words red light polio fisheries
onomatopoeia solar system dictionary spatial representation four snail
doormat Easter Toledo North salami forge collectibles monkey monkey
femur monkey monkey monkey monkey monkey monkey narwhal narwhal
narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal
narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal
narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal narwhal
spleen spleen spleen spleen spleen thee seven taco four eight
paleontology glass words loud nonsense anchor hammer flight fish moron
placid tranquility brick brick brick Formica splash fluid static
eatery colossal spelled wrong always spinach blue green septum words
pathway cornbread polymer hammer spectacular no erasing firstborn
splatter sled corn fish fi fee fo four and a half California inquiry
inquisition spolema tor wauki spigot worm disease rupture Korea Tokyo
tsunami typhoon ninja kid food muffin top barrel of monkeys barrel
monkeys barrel monkeys barrel monkeys badger snake fungi fungus fungal
fish float flout snout snort crane plane main Maien strain mainstream
Coast Guard splatter guard fold schmold cold spold spool cool fool
pontoon raccoon  to soon coon moon toon buffoon interpretive dance
romance chance clance manse rancid meat spontaneous generation swirl
twirl flurl curl divergence charge up a hill at the enemy who has
entrenched in the superior position no matter we have more troops and
your dog is expendable or perhaps your dog is expandable mandible
click-clack giant ant flying into the mantis spongiform beast defeat
in the realm of the manifold destiny collapse from sense to gibbering
like four fold carts which we eat to cut down on excess protein put
the spoon in your mouth you tooth fishing bastard what kind of man
east teeth the blanket knows no bounds of sensical benevolent
malefactor of memetic tom foolery is enforced by the simulated super
intellect of an omniscient sandwich brother fork formal procedure
tandem exploding moral aptitude and the words stop formationally
diagrammatic flagellation is a key component in the artificing of
stoic pig systems where an individual can create an excess of greek
letters and spelling errors tasty pie made of artificial safety tape
replicas of the Nigerian moon navy added to sport agonization election
erection completion sporulation moralspeculation formulation of the
chemical structure of evil cole slaw surpassed compressed possessed
coalesced egressed redressed molest protest expressed compressed gas
that is noninflammable unlike dense water that exploits uneducated
worked class intelligentsia who eat two many earlobes while throwing
together everything else that matters in a colloquial aorta explosion
outside the flight membrane of overeaten soft pulp which has been seen
to formulate a diagram in which all species are created better than
lower quality submersible vaccines machines have taken over, everyone
is a robot and dogs are zombies that want to eat your brain creating a
chain of pain ensuing in Maine on a train that fell from a plane
through a window pane lifted by a crane run by a man who is insanely
inane in the rain on a plain from Spain on a highway of one lane and
such is my bane so I walk with a cane so doth the moon want under the
lion's mane while the blood is slow in my one vein of iron ore smelted
and carbonized to make a stolen car bomb out of the penguin revolution
in the fifth millennia which can not be confused with the walrus
revolution that followed shortly before the vehicles due date was born
out of the head of a short-sighted mongoose eating the cobra tail of
life explosive degradation of the tertiary membrane results in the
extrication of the somnomblaic salad fish where folded entities are
concerned form replicates fractional divergence in the realm of
metasystematic irrelevance good golly green gamma golf gorge gouge out
the eyes of failure reinterpret malevolent democratic principles
without regard for the malnutrition of wellbeing intransient stoic
optimism in the face of omniscience transient metabolic separation
residue left on the cork of the wine bottle that is life on the other
side of existence is existence where some people forever return to the
same location where they were not in the past sense of the
extrapolation of a rabbit's hoof cooked host more felt in the veldt on
the rainfield of sage crop the photo against the wall where we push
the box purifying noun eats fish shoots lemon writes orbit flys
spatula complements the lawn gnome emperor rules over the realm of
funk is sometimes wrong about conflagration of single cored hair tonic
water and juniper excretion in the world of post processed phage
system in the important issue of helicopter surveillance monkey wrench
wench clench drench quench your molten gas chamber of time shifted
ligand solar power trivial heresy unappreciated multiplicative
oversimplification transubstantiative malodiferositous bowl of
porridge promiscuity is the spectacular issue from which we derive
safety synaptic diflurgation expansion system explode node electrode
fibril twill quill swill nil hill fill bill still gill semiotic
dinosaur blizzard blizzard blizzard blizzard blizzard blizzard
blizzard blizzard blizzard four two a double bookkeeper sweeper ringer
big numbers explode while you ignore the background system when you
don't try hard enough in exploiting the way in which the universe eats
fish to keep your mother on task when she starts to worry about gopher
expansion itself sleeping through the era era era era tax fraud is a
highly technical process often used to cook ducks faster but they must
still eat their own feathers for analytic purposes analyze in disguise
with these guys who eat flies in two tries with a spoon my government
is ruled by flying spatulas that desire the consumable portions of
your holistic environment with two and one half assault helicopters
being artfully flown by spasming archery doves on the wings of blurry
vision causing coagulation in the extracellular direction we take to
have important ramifications on exploding dolphin fish dog log
tortilla shell smell malleable governance through tyranny is impelled
towards overt justification of jurisprudence in the flying trial
system lacking overtures in the third movement of the fourth expansion
testing trying flying buying vying for air superiority in the Indian
Ocean so we can purchase all the emu ranches with special sauce loss
and gain comparison of polyurethane explain train conductor insulator
in an insular society of frozen monks eat pie all day long stopping as
soon as they lose their faith in firearms and firelegs in the less
extreme case where cannibalism grips the youth of the nation likes the
trailing flight more than the leading one rolling death in Vegas to
collect grocery bags for your favorite hobby shop to purchase new
machinery so that we can hold the hands of old ladies while they cross
the ocean in municipalities from which we have long since been exiled
for salad ballad quiescence he's always interfering with my grand
designs the man in the mirror is an evil son of a cheap Vietnamese
whore and I will kill the bastard wipe the smug smile off his face
then there will be no one left to stand in the way of my plans but
first I have to find him at a time when he's not wearing that magic
power belt that he always has on his nose soon dominion over the land
of man shall be mine and then I will build many casinos to take all
the money from Indian telemarketing agents and the outsourcing will be
mine along so I can eat all the spinach that I want and wipe cod fish
from the face of the planet as we will no longer need them to feed our
robot armies in the distant past when space fish roamed the skies of
all unknown clone monkeys in the North Sea clown industrial complex
this is a very big word indeed and do not let its small size confuse
you as I take the last remnants of what remains away from the concept
to ensure that anarchy is indeed the answer to the myriad of political
problems that have come about over the past few moments while the
fools have been consuming their one and only savior while traveling a
truly stupendous distance in one single leap a terrific bound across
non-geometric shapes that can no more be seen than comprehended by the
likes of man who in his head is also woman but will not admit his
state to the dog that buffalos his leg in a four pronged attack meant
to demoralize the enemy long enough for the cephalopods to regain a
ruling majority in the council of animals and overtly remove the
usurpers from their throne as to once again allow the lord master
kraken to eat some tasty treats as he is quite fond of doing while
lazing about on a quiet Sunday afternoon.
