What am I looking for in a woman
================================

:slug: what-am-i-looking-for-in-a-woman
:date: 2005-11-08 00:57:32+00:00
:updated: 2005-11-09 06:02:48+00:00
:tags: waksman

So I was chatting with Sherv last night, as I'm oft inclined to do, and
we somehow ended up on the topic of what I'm looking for in women. He
figured, "you realize, don't you, that your ruminations on this point
are prime blog material", and I'm inclined to agree. So combining bits
and pieces I was thinking about before, discussion yesterday and other
thoughts since, here are some of my thoughts on what I'm looking for in
a woman.

Style is a pretty important component of what I'm looking for;
specifically similarity and complementarity to my personal style. She
would need to be able to pick up my nonsense and run with it, playing it
up and adding to it as necessary. I mean, sure it's fun to be able to
make up stories about things like the molasses riots of 1843 for others
to listen to but sometimes I'd like to be able to have a discussion
about whether or not the badgers were justified in backing the Polish
squirrel revolution of 1908. However, as much as I love my nonsense, it
doesn't always deserve to be allowed to roam free and the right girl
would need to be willing and able to derail me when appropriate. Mind
you though, by derail I mean something more clever than just telling me
to shut up. Also, I expect being generally calm and composed would be
good, though I can imagine a few demeanors that would go well with calm
and composed without so being.

Common interests are another issue of fairly big importance. I don't
need someone that can tell the difference between Starscream, Skywarp
and Thundercracker but a girl would have to be able to enjoy
Transformers: The Movie and not just be willing to sit through it to be
with me. Liking the movie Brazil would be good too, but then again, see
the previous paragraph. The same enjoying and not sitting through
principle applies to Akira Kurosawa samurai films, spaghetti westerns
and a few other films that I like to watch sometimes. Now we come to
video games, another important thing for a girl to be into; I'm not
looking for someone that can kick my ass in Soul Calibur, though that
would be an immense turn-on, but I am looking for the type of girl that
can enjoy playing games with me, enjoy playing games that I can enjoy
sitting and watching be played and can enjoy sitting and watching me
play games sometimes. One might think that musical tastes would be a
really important thing for me, but given the leniency of my tastes, a
girl would only really have to be willing to put up with my music and
not listen to crap; I could probaly be happy with someone ranging from
anywhere in electronic through most rock.

I guess that really only leaves physical appearance. I like reasonably
tall girls but any more than a little taller than me and it starts to
get weird; I'd say the 5'7" to 6'1" range would be my preferred window.
I like long, say shoulder length, straight hair in a range from blonde
to brunette, especially with a slight red to it. As far as body type, my
preference is for slender through semi-athletic women. Really, more than
any of the other physical characteristics, I'm really drawn to a pretty
face, though I'd be really hard pressed to define what is a pretty face
to me. Also, like being able to beat me in Soul Calibur, having blue
eyes is not a requirement but a huge turn-on.

So yeah, that's pretty much what I'm looking for in a girl; if you're
out there girl who meets my criteria, drop me a line, we'll probably hit
it off pretty well. Otherwise, for the rest of you, it's my blog I'll
write whatever I feel like.
