Classical vs Quantum Fingernail growth rate
===========================================

:slug: classical-vs-quantum-fingernail-growth-rate
:date: 2004-03-03 03:27:00+00:00
:tags: musings

So, myself, Max and co. hop on the subway and head towards Porter Square
to get us some sushi at Kotobukiya, this marvelous inexpensive sushi
place at the Porter Exchange. Along the way, Max and I start to discuss
issues of fingernail growth; following is an approximation of the ideas
that we came upon:

Max suggested that if his fingernails were to grow twice as fast he
could bite his nails twice as fast. From this, I disagreed saying that
he could bite his nails twice as often. There was then agreement that
the nails could not be bitten off twice as fast, but Max introduced as
an alternative that they could be bitten off in chunks twice as large in
size. From these two methods of dealing with nails that grow twice as
fast comes a simple theory. Suppose there is a frequency with which
nails may be bitten (we'll call it w because it's like a little omega)
and suppose that there is a size, or amplitude, of bitten off nail
chunks (we will call this a), then we can say that their product will be
a constant (say C, just because) that is proportional to the rate of
fingernail growth. This theory can be written in the form w*a=C; this is
what we will call the fundamental theory of classical fingernail growth.

Max then theorized a non-classical form of fingernail growth when he
stated that he would like to have quantum fingernails. This led to a
discussion of how quantum fingernail growth would work. Our best
theorization of the matter is that since everything is a probability
distribution you can never know how long your fingernails are or how
fast they are growing unless you bite them. As such you will not know
how long your nails are until you bite them, but then you will not know
how long it will take until you need to bite them again.

Postscript: I do not encourage biting one's nails; personally I use nail
clippers. Nail biting was just the context that the conversation took at
the time.
