Transformers: The Movie
=======================

:slug: transformers-the-movie
:date: 2004-03-28 01:15:00+00:00
:tags: movies & tv

I'm sitting here watching the Transformers movie and remembering how
great a movie it really is. I would rank it up there as one of my
favorite movies, right up with Seven Samurai and Forrest Gump. I don't
care if it's a kids cartoon; the themes and emotions portrayed are
incredible. I suspect that I, or someone else, could write a truly
incredible paper about the various elements of this movie, but for now,
I'm going to provide a running commentary.

The interpersonal (interrobot?) interactions are quite impressive. The
relationship between Megatron and Optimus Prime is one of mutual respect
and almost seems to have elements of friendship. The battle between the
two of them portrays an interesting dynamic, Megatron's unwillingness to
use a weapon at the outset and Primes unwillingness to finish off
Megatron. It takes the intrusion of Hot Rod to snap them both back to
reality and bring a conclusion of the conflict.

Unicron is an interesting figure, some sort of God figure or Devil
figure. I am not sure what to make of him, but he sure is something,
world eating power giver that he is. The bit about Megatron becoming
Galvatron at Unicron's hands is a very Faustian soul selling kind of
thing.

Megatron/Galvatron exemplifies self-centered greed and a lust for power.
Also, Galvatron 0wnzes. Starscream on the other hand is just a dick.

They do a pretty darned good job of making the Autobots into
stereotypical good and the Decepticons into stereotypical evil. This is
all done without going over the top or seeming cliche.

I'm not sure what role the two humans play in the whole thing. Daniel
and his father may only be there to add a human element to the movie, or
they may serve some other role; it'll take some thinking.

The transformation of Hot Rod over the course of the movie is a coming
of age thing. In fact, as I think about it, this movie really has every
important story element, except for romance. I blame the lack of romance
on the plurality of central characters and that the transformers are
androgynous. Actually, I take it back, there are elements of romance
between RC and Hot Rod, but just barely.

I should stop now, or this post will turn into an essay. Also, I want to
sit back and enjoy the movie. Suffice it to say that Transformers: The
Movie is great and it's one of very few movies that I can watch over and
over again.
