about/about-person.rst, before:

About George Leslie-Waksman
===========================

:slug: about-person
:type: text


.. thumbnail:: /images/gwax.jpg
    :alt: George Leslie-Waksman portrait
    :align: right

Rules to live by
----------------

1.  When you're chucking a danish, everything's a cop car.
2.  When in doubt, go left.
3.  When in doubt, buy double.

Basic Info
----------

* Birthday: April 3\ :sup:`rd`
* Hometown: Concord, MA, USA
* Current Region: SF Bay Area, CA, USA
* Favorite Number: 3
* Favorite Color: Blue

Who am I?
---------

I'm a software engineer in the San Francisco Bay Area. My software contributions
are mostly closed source for my professional life or low profile for my own
enjoyment. I have a handful of small `projects <link://slug/projects>`_ and
things to be found on |github-icon| GitHub (`gwax <https://github.com/gwax>`__).
I've worked in just about every part of the stack though my focus leans pretty
hard toward data layer and infrastructure.

Long ago, I graduated from `MIT <http://web.mit.edu/>`_ with a degree in
Materials Science and Engineering (course 3 to fellow alums). During my time at
MIT, I had a pretty strong focus on structural materials and computer
simulations of material behavior. Subsequent to graduating, I spent a number
of years\ [#]_ taking increasingly software-focused jobs but always trying to
keep my focus on math, science, or the like.

.. [#] Along the way to accepting that I was a software engineer, I took a
    brief detour to law school. I only made it through about three quarters of
    a year before I decided it wasn't for me. As such, I feel it's really more
    of a footnote issue than a body content matter.

I spent a number of years at a (now defunct) company called Archimedes, Inc.
writing software and simulating clinical trials. During that time, I managed
to develop a passion for healthcare technology. I've come and gone from the
healthcare technology field a few times\ [#]_.

.. [#] There are a **lot** of startups trying to operate in the healthcare
    technology space that do not have viable business models. A lot of the
    companies think they have viable business models but are wrong, very, very
    wrong.

Eventually, I ended up at `Google <https://www.google.com>`_ as a Datacenter
Software Engineer and couldn't really keep up the illusion that I was a
scientist that wrote software. It's for the best really, I like the
practicality of engineering. Working at Google was an enlightening experience
but, ultimately, there is a ceiling on the interest I can muster for tracking
networking equipment parts in a datacenter.

I spent a handful of years back in the rich data world of healthcare, working
for `Clover Health <https://www.cloverhealth.com/>`_, a startup (now public)
health insurance company, that also happens to be a technology company. I
really connected with the mission of fixing healthcare for old people by
bringing 21st century technology to the data, operations, and managed care.
It was hard and took a lot out of me but I really hope my efforts do something
to dent the massive problem that is modern healthcare.

My next tour involved a chunk of time at `Samsara <https://www.samsara.com/>`_,
first as an engineer on Backend Platform and then building out a Data Platform
team to do cross-cutting analysis across the totality of Samsara's IoT data. The
mission was interesting albeit not as interesting as solving healthcare. That
said, it was a great opportunity to pick up more experience leading a technical
team and working with a handful of new technologies.

Now, I'm back to Insuretech, taking helm of engineering for
`LifeRaft <https://www.liferaft.co/>`_. I'm glad to be back trying to solve
real problems for average people.

If you want more professional details, there's something close enough to my
résumé available through LinkedIn. If you happen to want a proper résumé or
other details, you'll have to email me.

Non-professionally, I have a wife, a daughter, and a son, all of whom I love
to a degree that exceeds my writing ability to describe.

I am an avid player of `Magic: the Gathering <http://magic.wizards.com/>`_ and
many boardgames.

I also fancy myself an amateur mixologist.

Some day, I hope to master the Mai Tai.

Contact
-------

The best way to contact me is by email: waksman (at) google's email service.

Elsewhere Online
----------------

I am active, to varying degrees\ [#]_, on a number of online services:

.. [#] My Internet "social" activity is generally pretty low everywhere other
    than GitHub and reddit.

* |github-icon| GitHub: `gwax <https://github.com/gwax>`__
* |reddit-icon| reddit: `gwax <https://reddit.com/user/gwax>`__
* |linkedin-icon| LinkedIn: `George Leslie-Waksman <https://www.linkedin.com/in/glesliewaksman>`__
* |stackoverflow-icon| stackoverflow: `George Leslie-Waksman <https://stackoverflow.com/users/4853563/george-leslie-waksman>`__
* |twitter-icon| twitter: `@gwaxgwax <https://twitter.com/gwaxgwax>`__
* Tapped Out: `gwax <http://tappedout.net/users/gwax/>`__
* The Source: `gwax <http://www.mtgthesource.com/forums/member.php?35876-gwax>`__

.. |github-icon| image:: /icons/github.svg
    :class: svg-icon

.. |reddit-icon| image:: /icons/reddit.svg
    :class: svg-icon

.. |linkedin-icon| image:: /icons/linkedin.svg
    :class: svg-icon

.. |stackoverflow-icon| image:: /icons/stackoverflow.svg
    :class: svg-icon

.. |twitter-icon| image:: /icons/twitter.svg
    :class: svg-icon

To quote Yamamoto Tsunetomo
---------------------------

*Book 1, 79.* -- There is a lesson to be learned from a downpour of rain. If
you get caught in a sudden cloudburst, you will still get a drenching even
though you try to keep dry by hurrying along and taking cover under overhangs
of roofs. If you are prepared to get wet from the start, the result is still
the same but it is no hardship. This attitude can be applied to all
things.\ [#]_

.. [#] Yamamoto Tsunetomo, *Hagakure*, trans. Alexander Bennett
    (North Rutland, VT: Tuttle, 2014), 83

To quote an old Dell SCSI array manual
--------------------------------------

Narwhal
    A small arctic whale. The male has a long tusk.

Commit message:

Nikola auto commit.
Source commit: 70b846106762434701a8a97f4d45d127fb19fad8
Nikola version: 8.2.2

about/about-person.rst, after:

About George Leslie-Waksman
===========================

:slug: about-person
:type: text


.. thumbnail:: /images/gwax.jpg
    :alt: George Leslie-Waksman portrait
    :align: right

I'm a software engineer in the San Francisco Bay Area. My software contributions
are mostly closed source for my professional life or low profile for my own
enjoyment. I have a handful of small `projects <link://slug/projects>`_ and
things to be found on |github-icon| GitHub (`gwax <https://github.com/gwax>`__).
I've worked in just about every part of the stack though my focus leans pretty
hard toward data layer and infrastructure these days.

Long ago, I graduated from `MIT <http://web.mit.edu/>`_ with a degree in
Materials Science and Engineering (course 3 to fellow alums). During my time at
MIT, I had a pretty strong focus on structural materials and computer
simulations of material behavior. Subsequent to graduating, I spent a number
of years\ [#]_ taking increasingly software-focused jobs but always trying to
keep my focus on math, science, or the like.

.. [#] Along the way to accepting that I was a software engineer, I took a
    brief detour to law school. I only made it through about three quarters of
    a year before I decided it wasn't for me. As such, I feel it's really more
    of a footnote issue than a body content matter.

I spent a number of years at a (now defunct) company called Archimedes, Inc.
writing software and simulating clinical trials. During that time, I managed
to develop a passion for healthcare technology. I've come and gone from the
healthcare technology field a few times\ [#]_.

.. [#] There are a **lot** of startups trying to operate in the healthcare
    technology space that do not have viable business models. A lot of the
    companies think they have viable business models but are wrong, very, very
    wrong.

Eventually, I ended up at `Google <https://www.google.com>`_ as a Datacenter
Software Engineer and couldn't really keep up the illusion that I was a
scientist that wrote software. It's for the best really, I like the
practicality of engineering. Working at Google was an enlightening experience
but, ultimately, there is a ceiling on the interest I can muster for tracking
networking equipment parts in a datacenter.

I spent a handful of years back in the rich data world of healthcare, working
for `Clover Health <https://www.cloverhealth.com/>`_, a startup (now public)
health insurance company, that also happens to be a technology company. I
really connected with the mission of fixing healthcare for old people by
bringing 21st century technology to the data, operations, and managed care.
It was hard and took a lot out of me but I really hope my efforts do something
to dent the massive problem that is modern healthcare.

My next tour involved a chunk of time at `Samsara <https://www.samsara.com/>`_,
first as an engineer on Backend Platform and then building out a Data Platform
team to do cross-cutting analysis across the totality of Samsara's IoT data. The
mission was interesting albeit not as interesting as solving healthcare. That
said, it was a great opportunity to pick up more experience leading a technical
team and working with a handful of new technologies.

Now, I'm back to Insuretech, taking helm of engineering for
`LifeRaft <https://www.liferaft.co/>`_. I'm glad to be solving real problems
for average people again.

If you want more professional details, there's something close enough to my
résumé available through LinkedIn. If you happen to want a proper résumé or
other details, you'll have to email me.

Non-professionally, I have a wife, and three children, all of whom I love
to a degree that exceeds my writing ability to describe.

I am an avid player of `Magic: the Gathering <http://magic.wizards.com/>`_ and
many boardgames.

I also fancy myself an amateur mixologist.

Some day, I hope to master the Mai Tai.

Contact
-------

The best way to contact me is by email: waksman (at) google's well known email service.

I am open to startup advisory roles.

I am not looking for a new full time position; recruiting emails will be ignored
or politely declined.

Elsewhere Online
----------------

I am active, to varying degrees\ [#]_, on a number of online services:

.. [#] My Internet "social" activity is generally pretty low everywhere other
    than GitHub and reddit.

* |github-icon| GitHub: `gwax <https://github.com/gwax>`__
* |reddit-icon| reddit: `gwax <https://reddit.com/user/gwax>`__
* |linkedin-icon| LinkedIn: `George Leslie-Waksman <https://www.linkedin.com/in/glesliewaksman>`__
* |stackoverflow-icon| stackoverflow: `George L-W <https://stackoverflow.com/users/777006/george-l-w>`__
* |twitter-icon| twitter: `@gwaxgwax <https://twitter.com/gwaxgwax>`__

.. |github-icon| image:: /icons/github.svg
    :class: svg-icon

.. |reddit-icon| image:: /icons/reddit.svg
    :class: svg-icon

.. |linkedin-icon| image:: /icons/linkedin.svg
    :class: svg-icon

.. |stackoverflow-icon| image:: /icons/stackoverflow.svg
    :class: svg-icon

.. |twitter-icon| image:: /icons/twitter.svg
    :class: svg-icon

To quote Yamamoto Tsunetomo
---------------------------

*Book 1, 79.* -- There is a lesson to be learned from a downpour of rain. If
you get caught in a sudden cloudburst, you will still get a drenching even
though you try to keep dry by hurrying along and taking cover under overhangs
of roofs. If you are prepared to get wet from the start, the result is still
the same but it is no hardship. This attitude can be applied to all
things.\ [#]_

.. [#] Yamamoto Tsunetomo, *Hagakure*, trans. Alexander Bennett
    (North Rutland, VT: Tuttle, 2014), 83

To quote an old Dell SCSI array manual
--------------------------------------

Narwhal
    A small arctic whale. The male has a long tusk.
