2010 Journey East: Day 2: In brief summary
==========================================

:slug: 2010-journey-east-day-2-in-brief-summary
:date: 2010-06-29 08:26:43+00:00
:updated: 2010-06-30 14:29:39+00:00
:tags: adventures

It's 3AM Central Time and I arrived at Riad's place in Austin, TX
somewhere between 30 and 60 minutes ago.

It being 3AM, I shall keep this brief and, perhaps, go into greater
detail tomorrow.

There were a few notable things that occurred during the day:

There was a US Border Patrol inspection point on I-10E an hour or so
East of El Paso, TX whereat I was first asked if I was a US citizen,
then asked where I was from, where I was going, and what the purpose of
my trip was. My car was visually inspected from the outside and sniffed
by a dog. I was asked Baldr's age and I was sent on my way. The line of
cars waiting to be inspected, the time spent per car, and the
interruption to my cruising speed probably cost me a half hour or so.
I'm not sure whether this is an indication that the terrorists or the
anti-immigration crack-pots have won.

Somewhere in the midst of Texas, among the scrubland and the mesas, in
the mid-afternoon, I hit boredom for the first time; it was an odd,
unpleasant feeling that I haven't felt in a very long time but its
exploration and coming through the other side are chief elements of this
vacation. After hitting that point, I drove in my boredom with the music
and audiobooks off for a time before the boredom passed and Moby Dick
resumed. Speaking of Moby Dick; I am on the 18th or 18 discs, nearing
the final chapters and absolutely riveted.

Sometime shortly after my boredom passed I encountered a rain of
insects. Droplets, or what seemed to be droplets, began hitting my
windshield at the rate of a mild shower but, some moments later, when I
decided to use my wipers to remove the droplets, they merely smeared
across the windshield. This horrid rain persisted for a good fifteen to
thirty minutes, eventually leaving my windshield with substantially
diminished clarity, in spite of many applications of windshield wipers
with fluid.

Due to my own laziness and my cars extreme economy, those insects
remained on my windshield through nightfall, on into the night, and only
finally were extricated by an actual rainfall about a hundred miles out
from Austin. I say a hundred miles out because that is where the rain
began; it was not, however, very localized. For the last hundred miles
of the drive, the weather vacillated wildly between mild mist and rains
so torrential that I haven't seen their likes since last I saw the outer
fringes of hurricanes in New England. I have heard that there is a
tropical storm off the coast now and this truly felt like its outer
edges.

There were plenty of other sights and events during the day but, as I
said before, the time is late and I must sleep.
