Asceticism post-mortem
======================

:slug: asceticism-post-mortem
:date: 2010-06-08 23:39:41+00:00
:tags: waksman

My month of asceticism having passed, and having had some time to
relapse as the mood strikes me, I am able to draw some conclusions from
the experience.

**Caffeine** - My relationship with caffeine has changed quite
substantially as a result of my ascetic endeavor. I suffered pretty bad
migraines for a day or so within a few days of giving up caffeine. The
migraines subsided a couple days later and I was left heavily craving
caffeine for about two weeks. By this point, more than a month after
giving up caffeine, I still have some desire for caffeine but I feel as
though I wouldn't have any trouble continuing indefinitely without
caffeine.

That I could continue indefinitely without caffeine doesn't mean I plan
to. I have no plans to relapse to my prior levels (2-5 units per day) of
caffeine usage but caffeine can be quite useful so neither do I intend
to swear off caffeine. My plan is to go without caffeine in general but
turn to it at times when I find myself desiring of more wakefulness or
other stimulants.

Caffeine only for a purpose, not out of habit.

**High fructose corn-syrup** - Adding high fructose corn-syrup to my
ascetic month was a very good choice on my part. I have decided to
entirely give up high fructose corn-syrup and I'm not looking back.
Mostly, all of the things that I have to give up to avoid high fructose
corn-syrup are not things that I mind giving up. I kind of miss soda a
little bit but only just barely.

It takes a little bit of awareness and vigilance but I feel that it's
worth the effort to go without high fructose corn-syrup.

**Alcohol** - Nothing much learned here. I still enjoy the flavor and
side-effects of alcoholic beverages. Having had a month without alcohol
has left me with a somewhat decreased tolerance, which has its pluses
and minuses but that's about all that I've gotten from this month as
regards alcohol.

I guess the fact that I drink alcohol because I enjoy it and not out of
habit might be a valuable thing to have learned.

**Drugs** - Giving something up that you weren't going to have been
doing isn't really giving something up.

**Conclusion:** Giving stuff up for a while can give you a new
perspective or appreciation for the things that you give up. Sometimes
that new perspective is that old habits aren't worth keeping.
