Comfort: No longer a scarcity
=============================

:slug: comfort-no-longer-a-scarcity
:date: 2008-12-17 01:50:40+00:00
:tags: waksman, weather

Living in San Francisco really is spoiling me on weather, so much so
that I've actually had a paradigm shift.

Having primarily grown up and lived in Massachusetts, with a short stint
in Minnesota, I've been trained to treat comfortable weather as a scarce
commodity. In Massachusetts, one gets some nice time in the spring and
fall; the summers provide hot and muggy discomfort, which must be fought
with water or A/C; and, the winters provide cold, sleet, ice and more
cold. Minnesota offers similar weather to Massachusetts in the spring,
summer and fall but, for winters, merely provides pain, lots of pain.
The scarcity of warmth and comfort in the winter often leads me to wear
as little winter gear as possible to get by, saving as much as possible
for later. By saving the heaviest of my winter gear for when the winter
is the worst, I am able to maintain a relatively constant level of
discomfort throughout the season. Thus, by accepting discomfort as
inevitable, I am able to ramp up my tolerance to the cold.

Here in San Francisco, however, the weather doesn't really get that bad
so there is no reason to tolerate discomfort; abiding discomfort doesn't
prepare me for anything. The realization came to me while mopedding to
work, when I had the thought, "Man, my face is chilly; I should wear my
balaclava next time." This was followed by a train of thought along the
lines of, "but then when it gets colder, I'll just be more
uncomfortable.", "Wait, this is probably as cold and unpleasant as it's
going to get.", "Clearly, I should man up and suffer because it leaves
me better prepared.", "Wait, so what?!" All of my reasons to be
uncomfortable are founded on the premise that comfort is scarce and one
can be best prepared by accepting discomfort; when comfort is not
scarce, that is wrong.

Sure it makes me weak and you're all more hardcore for having to put up
with the cold but, you know what, I don't care because I'm going to be
nice and comfortable wearing my winter coat when it's in the low forties
instead of holding out until it drops below twenty.
