Déjà Senti
==========

:slug: deja-senti
:date: 2007-12-13 00:38:20+00:00
:tags: musings

I have at many times in my life had brief, `déjà
vu <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D%C3%A9j%C3%A0_vu>`__ like experiences.
A recent, particularly strong one inspired me to read up on the
phenomenon a bit and mention the occurrences. In reading through
wikipedia, I came across the sub-categories of déjà vu and was struck by
how much `déjà
senti <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D%C3%A9j%C3%A0_vu#D.C3.A9j.C3.A0_senti>`__,
or 'already felt,' sounds like the phenomenon that I experience. The
sensation can be described as an uncanny sense of exactly repeating a
psychological or emotional state, almost as if someone had recorded my
mental state at a time in the past and suddenly loaded it back into my
mind. When this happens there is no intermediary reminiscence that
reminds me of a previous state, just a sudden shift to the old state.
Usually, the phenomenon is very short lived with an equally abrupt shift
back leaving me with a strong sense of, "woah, what just happened in my
mind?!" It's a very curious and rather pleasant experience, but I find
myself wondering if anyone else has had a similar experience or has them
recurrently, as I do.

Sometimes I am able, after the fact, to recall an instance in which I
was in the mental state that I shifted to and identify a similarity to
the present, which may be a candidate trigger stimulus. For example, the
phenomena appear to have occurred in response to music on a quite a few
occasions, where a particular song jumps me into a state that I was in
during a particular previous time that I listened to that song. These
music induced jumps seem to occur more often with some songs than others
but are, by no means, predictable or repeatable. If such a jump occurs
with a given song, it is always to the same state for a given song,
which can occasionally demand pressing fast forward. The times when I am
able to identify the trigger and original recorded state are the
minority; sometimes I get one or the other and sometimes I get neither.
Regardless of how much I am able to consciously remember, there is
always a strong sense of recollection, hence déjà senti.

When I first started to become aware of these déjà senti occurrences, I
figured them for some sort of
`synesthesia <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synesthesia>`__, figuring
that I had some sort of music→emotional cross. This theory gained some
ground after a discussion on the topic of synesthesia with my cousin,
who has perfect pitch; sound→color synesthesia and perfect-pitch are
thought to have possible connections and genetic trends. However, as I
started paying more attention, I came to realize that the phenomena are
not isolated to auditory stimulus and sometimes seem to occur without
any sensory stimulus at all. Subsequently, I started considering the
phenomenon to be a form of déjà vu. Déjà vu being where I left my
thinking until the particularly strong and thoroughly inexplicable
occurrence that led to déjà senti and this post. It feels to me as
though my brain may be doing a similar thing in the case of déjà senti
as in the case of leaps of intuition where I am able to feel the answer
to a problem long before I can reason through the problem. Perhaps the
brain is capable of processing information at a far faster rate than
consciousness can follow and sometimes the brain doesn't want to wait
for consciousness to catch up. Maybe I just need to start giving my
brain partial credit until it learns how to show its work. Of course,
the impatient brain theory doesn't explain why some of my endpoints are
complete psychological/emotional states.
