Go see Transformers
===================

:slug: go-see-transformers
:date: 2007-07-03 18:18:56+00:00
:tags: movies & tv

I don't generally ask too much of you, Internet, but this I ask of you
for your own good: go see the new Transformers movie and go see it now.
I saw the new Transformers movie at the earliest possible showing, last
night at 8pm, and was completely blown away.

The new Transformers movie is everything that the first generation
cartoons and movie were and so much more. With this new movie, the
transformers have finally become everything that they should have been
before. Now, understand, as I say these things, that I have loved and
worshiped the first generation cartoons since I was a child.

The new Transformers movie improves on the old cartoons in a number of
ways and adds depth in ways I could not have imagined. The biggest
improvements come as a result of the freedoms found in PG-13 movies
targeted at teenagers and twenty-somethings, specifically the shear
brutality of the Decepticons and interpersonal interactions that haven't
been dumbed down or overly cleaned up. Where Megatron was once a greedy
and self-serving megalomaniac, he is now a cruel and brutally violent
sadist; it feels as though Megatron has come into his own as never
before. There is a depth and amusing fish-out-of-water awkwardness to
the Autobots that makes them both endearing and surprisingly human.
Michael Bey has done a fantastic job of direction and, combined with
fantastic cinematography, every scene appears to come across as total
perfection; there are times when the tension is palpable, others when
the comic relief smooths things over, slow-motion at just the right
moments and then the action sequences are amazing.

From about five minutes into the film, clear through the end, I was
stuck in a deer-in-headlights state of paralysis, unable to escape the
onslaught of awesomeness that was bombarding my senses. The culmination
of all my expectations and the majesty of the films orchestration left
me, quite literally, in tears as the credits began to roll. If you've
already seen the new Transformers movie, I'm sure that you already know
that I'm right, but if you haven't seen it yet, I can't understand why
you're still reading this instead of going to see it right now.
Seriously, go now; it's more important than anything else you could
possibly be doing.
