A Not So Pale Lager and A Hefty Tripel
======================================

:slug: a-not-so-pale-lager-and-a-hefty-tripel
:date: 2007-04-05 17:14:38+00:00
:tags: science & technology, food & drink

It's time for a beer update. Before I go anywhere, I should like to note
that I am a beer brewer and not a beer judge so my descriptive
terminology may not be official or even accurate. Now, let's talk about
victory; victory and beer.

I cracked open the first bottle of my, supposed to be pale, lager last
Saturday to mixed feelings of joy and disappointment. Upon pouring the
beer from bottle to glass, it was immediately obvious that my attempt at
making a pale lager did not come out very pale. My goal was to produce a
very pale lager of
2-4\ `SRM <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_Reference_Method>`__
but the result is far closer to 8-12SRM. Accepting that the color might
be off but it might still taste like a Pale Lager, I moved on to
tasting. Upon tasting the lager, it was clear that I had not
accomplished the crisp, clear pale lager style but managed a heavier,
hoppier style of lager. Although the beer is in no way pale, it is
nonetheless very good; it is an acceptable mistake. I believe that my
mistake probably arose from two problems: my malts were too dark and my
lagering was not cold enough. I like the beer and I figure it makes for
a valiant first attempt at a lager but I will be trying again to see if
I can manage a pale lager at some point in the future.

On Tuesday, as a birthday present for myself, I finally tapped my tripel
ale keg. Filling a glass, I was greeted with nothing less than a
complete fulfillment of my hopes and aspirations. The beer is clear of
any haze and has a very nice amber color, give or take, about 15SRM.
There is a very pleasant aroma, somewhat fruity and almost candy-like.
Upon tasting, I knew that I had met and exceeded my expectations; the
flavor is that of a Belgian white beer, smooth, fruity and with a low
bitterness, but has the strong malt overtones of a barleywine or
conventional tripel ale. The malty character is more subdued and less
over powering than that of most barleywines or tripels I have
encountered, which suits my preferences. The beer's alcohol content of
about 9-12% is very well masked by the flavors of the beer and puts it
slightly out of the standard range of a tripel ale, into that of
barleywines and quadrupel ales. This beer is, in my opinion, a
phenomenal sipping beer, with a heck of a kick to it; it's easily one of
the best tripel or quadrupel style ales I've ever had. I will definitely
be keeping this recipe and hopefully I'll have ample opportunity to use
it again in the future.
