Sailing Days
============

:slug: sailing-days
:date: 2007-06-20 18:54:47+00:00
:tags: sailing

The past few days here in Woods Hole have been stunningly beautiful; if
the past few days had been women, they would have easily been 10s. Of
course, having boats in the water and beautiful days means that I had no
choice but to go sailing. Sunday, I took out my dad's old sailfish, a
wondrous little craft that's hardly more than an over glorified
windsurfer. I ended up toodling around in Little Harbor for about an
hour, having a wonderful time. Monday, it was a bit windier and I ended
up taking the sailfish and venturing a little way out of Little Harbor.
On my way back into Little Harbor, I was sailing on a `broad
reach <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Points_of_sail#Broad_Reach>`__ and I
started picking up an immense amount of speed. As I started to really
get going, I was made aware of something that I had forgotten about
sailfish, sailfish can
`plane <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planing_%28sailing%29>`__. The
front half of the sailfish was completely out of the water and I was
going mighty fast. Sadly, I brought my GPS with me on Sunday but not on
Monday so all I can say is that I was going substantially faster on
Monday than the 6.3 knots that I measured on Sunday.

Yesterday (Tuesday), is when the big guns came out and the real fun
began. Yesterday was Synchronicity, my catamaran's, first sail of the
season. It was a nice, warmish day with moderate wind so Dave and I took
Synchronicity out after work. We three quickly made our way out of Great
Harbor and off into Vineyard Sound. As we passed Nobska Point and headed
out into Vineyard Sound proper, the wind picked up a bit and we started
tearing through the water. Having been cooped up all winter and having
so much wind to play with, Synchronicity was more than a bit antsy so
Dave and I, feeling bold, decided to let her have a bit of fun.
Synchronicity was in the mood to take flight and, for the first time, we
were kind enough to oblige her. The sensation of being on a catamaran as
the hull beneath you lifts out of the water is very similar to the
sensation you experience in an airplane the moment it lifts off the
ground during take off. Investigating my GPS after the fact, we found
that we had hit a maximum speed of 14.9 knots, which I find to be
admirable for Synchronicity's first voyage of the summer.

From this point forward, I'm intending to go sailing after work every
day that the weather is sufficient, excepting those days when there's an
MBL softball game. Simply put, I just love sailing; it's one of my
favorite things in the world and now I get to do a whole bunch of
sailing again.
