Law School
==========

:slug: law-school
:date: 2005-10-29 21:09:43+00:00
:updated: 2005-11-03 23:22:41+00:00
:tags: waksman, school

For those that I haven't told yet, I've decided to go to law school. I'm
going to take the LSAT at the beginning of December and then apply to
schools in December/January. This is a decision that's been a long time
coming and that I've been getting more and more committed to of late. To
give the best explanation I can of this decision: I've been toying with
the idea for well over a year, largely because I think politics or
diplomacy would be the sorts of careers where I could get away with my
boisterous, high volume, talk a lot, center of attention style and put
it to good use. Add to all that, that I like arguing a bunch and you've
got arrows pointing towards a law degree. However, I was stuck in the I
must do science mindset considering law school as a lark until about a
month ago when I half-jokingly asked a friend for life advice, he
suggested law school and a whole bunch of things clicked into place in
my head.

I know that I have a great mind for math, science and engineering but
I've been riding that for years, not needing to put much into it and not
really getting much out of it. I know exactly what things will be like
and where I'll end up if I keep doing science and engineering, which
pretty much takes all the fun out of it so I'm going to stop coasting
and choose a different direction; it's proactive time.

Since it's on a related note, my chief regret in the way I handled my
MIT education is that I let my must do science mindset run things and
didn't consider the non-technical classes to have much value. In
retrospect, I wish that I had taken more architecture classes while I
was there. This desire is not because I want to be an architect
professionally, but because I did when I was 5 and expect that it would
have been a lot of fun to design a few buildings.
