Martians Ate My Parents? (or something like that)
=================================================

:slug: martians-ate-my-parents-or-something-like-that
:date: 2007-08-16 06:59:24+00:00
:tags: movies & tv

Ok, blogosphere, or whatever you interwebzorworkpeople want to call
yourselves, this is a plea for help. I try not to depend on other people
for much but this is truly important to me and if you can help me, I
will be gracious towards you in quantities hard to express.

There was a movie that I saw on television when I was young (somewhere
between 6 and 13 (so 1989-1996 probably)) that involved some kid waking
up in his bed, seeing a weird glowing over the hill behind his house and
then getting abducted by aliens that wanted to do terrible things to
him. Eventually, this kid escapes from the aliens and returns to his
home and finds comfort with his family. Unfortunately, it turns out that
the kid's family have already been taken over by the aliens and turned
into aliens themselves and another adventure ensues. The kid, returns
again to his home and manages to destroy the aliens, which I think
resolves the matter but might not. I admit that I remember very little
of the movie but I know that, if I were to see it again, I would
instantly recognize it. So, if any of you have any idea what I might be
talking about, please let me know and I will investigate the leads.

Really, the key bits are the kid waking up from sleeping to see some
weird glowing behind the hill in his back yard, going to investigate,
finding aliens trying to eat him, escaping, returning home, finding his
parents are aliens in disguise, repeating the whole escaping part and
then being left unsure as to whether his parents are real or not.
Seriously, this movie is something that I remember with a combination of
intense curiosity and traumatic peculiarity, which I would like to track
down for my personal edification. I think the title was something like
*Martians ate my Parents* or *Martians ate my Family* but I am not
certain.

Please, tracking down this movie will either serve to resolve some weird
issues that I have holed up in my psyche or, at the least, it will
enable me to source some weird memories that I can't seem to rid myself
of.
