Moosilauke: 1, George: about 1.6
================================

:slug: moosilauke-1-george-about-16
:date: 2007-08-13 14:26:21+00:00
:tags: mountains

if you recall the `last
time <http://blog.gwax.com/2006/01/07/moosilauke-1-george-a-little-less-than-1/>`__
that I tried to climb Moosilauke, you'll note that I failed. Yesterday,
however, I set out for attempt two and succeeded.

I drove up to Concord on Saturday and then, bright and 6:30am early
Sunday, I drove to Cambridge, grabbed Max and drove up to Lincoln, NH.
In Lincoln, we grabbed breakfast and some snacks before driving out the
the trailhead. Our hike finally set off at 11am.

Moosilauke starts our reasonably flat, with a slight rise over easy
ground for a small fraction of a mile. After the very brief illusion of
ease, comes the Hell that is going up approximately 2000 feet in about a
mile, which for the mathematically inclined is about 22Â° average
inclination. This rise is flanked, most of the way, by a series of very
beautiful waterfalls and consists primarily of rocks. It should be noted
that the steep part of the path begins and ends with signs warning that
it is very treacherous and should be avoided when wet or icy. After
using most of our initial energy on the steep portion, we were happy to
find that it became gradual and had a bit of soft dirt for a while,
providing a very welcome respite. After the gradual portion, we hit a
number of up and down portions, nowhere near as severe as the initial
portion of the trail, before beginning the final ascent to the summit.
We reached the summit at about 2pm.

The summit of Moosilauke is essentially a very large grass hill, with a
great many blueberry bushes and some rock shelters, reaching a maximum
elevation of 4802 feet (trailhead is at 1800 feet). The summit provides
fantastic views in all directions, unobscured by trees or any of the
smaller surrounding mountains. The summit provided a nice cooling
breeze, a good place to have lunch and a whole bunch of gnats. So far as
I can tell, I probably ate about a dozen of those gnats as they landed
on my fingers and food. All in all, Moosilauke has a beautiful summit
that is rather pleasant to hang out on. We left the summit at about
2:30p for home.

The upper portions of the trail were just about as easy to go down as
they were to come up. The steep portion, however, was not so pleasant or
easy. Initially, the only problem getting down the steep portion was
that we were quite exhausted by that point and steep rocks are not easy
to descend. Shortly after the steep portion began, our real troubles
began, rain. At first it rained lightly, just enough to make all the
rocks slippery and treacherous, which makes for a wonderful addition to
a trail listed as to be avoided when wet or icy. The light rain was
rather annoying but then when it was followed by a rain heavy enough to
drench us to the bone, it felt as though the mountain were spiting us
and trying to make me fail once more. Eventually, we made it through all
the slippery rocks and mud to the bottom, reaching trailhead at 5:30pm.
From the bottom, we drove to the Ashland Burger King, The Burger King of
New Hampshire mountain climbing, had some dinner and proceeded home. By
the time I arrived back in Woods Hole, at 10pm, I felt as though I was
going to collapse. Shortly thereafter, I did collapse, thankfully in my
bed. Today, I still feel as though I am going to collapse, but I can
probably hold myself together until the afternoon.
